<!--SEI1 5:34 -->

# React Lifting Up State - Extra Repetition

## Learning Objectives

- Learn how to lift state up from a component

React's data flow is unidirectional and data flows down. That is, data moves from parent components down. A parent component has no idea about the state of its child components.

When we were updating our `state` of our songs in Tunr earlier (toggling our love of them, and showing a heart), the `state` in the parent component did not change.

Open up `tunr_app` from our earlier lesson in your text editor and in the browser. If you didn't finish the work in the earlier lesson, there is also a copy in `student_examples` for today (don't forget to run `npm install` and `npm start`).

<!--SEI1 5:38 -->

Let's say we want to make a list of favorite songs, that when a user clicks on an item, it gets a heart but also goes into the favorite songs list. We would need to move that information out of the `Playlist` and into a `FavoriteSongs` component. There is no direct way to move this data from the `Playlist` to the `FavoriteSongs` component. Just like we did in the last lesson, we have to move the data up into the shared parent component of `Playlist` and `FavoriteSongs` and then dispatch the data back down to the `FavoriteSongs`.

If this seems a bit unwieldy, especially if you have a lot of state to manage, a lot of people would agree. Therefore there are solutions to help. For example, there are other libraries like `Redux` that help manage `state`.

For now, though, we'll hammer home the basics of how to lift up `state`.

We also want to update the functionality of our `onClick` inside of the `Playlist`: rather than toggle a true/false value, we want to take that item and add it to the `App`'s state and then pass it down to `FavoriteSongs`.

Let's make a `FavoriteSongs` component. It's going to be very similar to our `Playlist`.

```js
import React, { Component } from 'react'

class FavoriteSongs extends Component {
  render () {
    return (
      <div className="playlist">
        <h3>Favorite Songs</h3>
        <table>
          <thead>
            <tr>
              <th>Song</th>
              <th>Artist</th>
              <th>Time</th>
            </tr>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
          {  this.props.songs.map((song, index )=> {
              return (
                <tr key={index}>
                  <td>{song.title}</td>
                  <td>{song.artist}</td>
                  <td>{song.time}</td>
                </tr>
              )
            })}
          </tbody>
        </table>
      </div>
    )
  }
}

export default FavoriteSongs
```

Notice that `Component` is imported a little differently than earlier.  The syntax below is called [object destructuring](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Destructuring_assignment). The idea behind destructuring is similar to many of the other improvements in ES6: to keep code better organized and to help developers type less.

```js
import React, { Component } from 'react'
```

What is happening here? Basically, we are pulling in the property `React.Component`, and saving it into its own variable, called `Component`. We can clear this up with a simple example. The two code samples below do the same thing:

```js
const age = person.age

const { age } = person
```

You can do this with any object (and even arrays) and with as many properties as you want. We will see this more as we continue (especially with `this.state` and `this.props`).

Now Let's import this new component:
**App.js**
```js
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import playlists from './data.js'
import Playlist from './components/Playlist.js'
import FavoriteSongs from './components/FavoriteSongs.js'
```

Add an array to the state of the App component called `lovedSongs`

**App.js**

```js
state = {
  playlists: playlists,
  title: '',
  artist:'',
  time: '0:00',
  lovedSongs: []
}
```

Let's make a function that will add to our lovedSongs in our `App`

**App.js**

```js
addLovedSong = (song) => {
  this.setState({lovedSongs: [song, ...this.state.lovedSongs]})
}
```

Next, we have to pass this function down to our `Playlist`

```js
<Playlist
  playlists={this.state.playlists}
  title={this.state.title}
  artist={this.state.artist}
  time={this.state.time}
  handleChange={this.handleChange}
  handleSubmit={this.handleSubmit}
  handleAdd={this.addLovedSong}
/>
```

Now, we can render this component(it'll be empty at first):

**App.js**
```js
<Playlist
  playlists={this.state.playlists}
  title={this.state.title}
  artist={this.state.artist}
  time={this.state.time}
  handleChange={this.handleChange}
  handleSubmit={this.handleSubmit}
  handleAdd={this.addLovedSong}
/>
<FavoriteSongs
  songs={this.state.lovedSongs}
/>
```

Now we have to pass `addLovedSong` even further down into our `Song` component (this is called props drilling and is something that Redux and React Context look to solve)

<!--SEI1 5:49 -->

**Playlist**

```js
<Song
  song={song}
  key={index}
  handleAdd={this.props.handleAdd}
/>
```

Finally, we can call this function inside of our click event. However, we have three problems:

- We need to be able to pass an argument into the function. We can't do this in `onClick` or it will fire immediately
- We already have another function being triggered on click
- Whenever we click we'll always toggle love, but we only want to add to our favorite songs if a song doesn't already have a heart

To solve this, we can wrap both functions in an anonymous function and we can add a bit of logic to only trigger our add to favorites if a song is not yet our favorite but we click on it

**Song**

```js
<tr
  onClick={
    () => {
      this.toggleLiked()
      !this.state.liked && this.props.handleAdd(this.props.song)
   }}
>
```

Finally, let's test it out!

## Extra bonuses

- We can add the same song multiple times - make it so that you can only add a song once
- Make is so that you can remove a song from the favorites list

<!--SEI1 5:55 -->
