# Introduction to GA

<!--4:35 -->

## Learning Objectives

- Introduction to the classroom, instructors and roles
- Review expectations and the student handbook
- Take a look a the daily happenings & deeper dive into each portion.
- Communication tools

<hr>

## Instructors

- Zeb Girouard - Instructor Lead

- Kevin Bloomquist - Instructional Associate (IA)
- Mark De May - Instructional Associate (IA)

- Nicole Umphress - Outcomes


## Roles

- Instructor Lead (IL)
  - Lesson Blocks
  - Code-alongs
  - Labs
  - Morning Exercises
  - In-Class Code Reviews
  - In-Class Interview Prep
  - Creating Homework

- Instructor Associate (IA)
  - one-on-one help during TA hours
  - will give you feedback on your homework and score if it is complete or incomplete

- Outcomes
  - Outcomes course content
  - Post-class job placement questions
  - Out-of-class Interview Prep

>**Note:** These roles define who *leads* a section, and whom you should go to if you have a question on a certain topic, but each of these roles are shared responsibilities.

<hr>

## INTRO to ICEBREAKER!

<!--4:43 -->

Two truths and a lie Instructor Demo

<hr>

## ICEBREAKER (7 min)!

Two truths and a lie in groups

<hr>

<!--4:57 -->

## Student Handbook

The [student handbook](../../../../../wiki/Student-Handbook) is always accessible on the [class wiki](../../../../../wiki) in our class Github Enterprise repository.


<hr>

## ICEBREAKER (7 min)!

Two truths and a lie round two

<hr>

# Communication

## Micro Feedback

This is a chance to let us know how you're feeling every day

- We love feedback at GA
- Micro Feedback will be given daily
- Use this opportunity to tell us how you're doing and how we can improve
- Comfort Zone, Learning Zone, Panic Zone

## Communication Tools

### Slack

#### 4 channels

	- wdir-classroom
	- wdir-partytime
  - wdir-tech-talk
	- wdir-outcomes

#### How To:

##### Communicate in one of the outrun channels:

	- @username
		- sends a notification to a specific user
	- @channel / @here
		- sends a notification to everyone / everyone currently online
    - DO NOT use these unless absolutely necessary (usually only instructors/TAs use this)

##### Communicate privately:

- Direct messages are one-on-one messages nobody else can see.
- In addition, you can make group direct messages to talk to multiple people at once, privately.

##### Other:

	- You can mute channels that you no longer need (e.g. Fundamentals)
	- You can adjust the sound / notifications of your messages

### Zoom

Our video conferencing tool!

- Share video always during class time
- We use breakout rooms for group meetings
- Don't forget to mute!
- You can share your screen with us / anyone
- Grid for speaker view

<hr>

## ICEBREAKER (7 min)!

Two truths and a lie share with class

<hr>

<!--5:07 and only one pair icebreaker -->

## Break

Stand up, walk around, get a snack
