# Callbacks and Higher Order Functions

<!--SEI1 4:50 -->

## Lesson Objectives

- Explain what a higher order function is
- Explain what the purpose of a higher order function is
- Explain what a callback is
- Explain what the purpose of a callback function is
- Write a higher order function with a callback
- Use a built-in higher order function (`setTimeout`)

In JavaScript, what can we pass in as arguments to a function?
- string?
- number?
- array?
- object?
- function?

Yes! You can pass a function as an argument in JavaScript.

A function that takes another function as an argument is called a `higher order` function. The function that is being passed in is called a `callback`.

Typically, a callback is a function to be executed after another function finishes executing.

Why would we ever want to do this?!

- We want control of when a function gets executed (a callback happens after the higher order function) - this is how we can have some control of the order of function execution in an asynchronous language like JavaScript

- Specifically, callbacks are very useful for defining what happens after we click, scroll, type, or perform some other action on a webpage (e.g. "When the user clicks the Sign In button, send the username and password to verify their identity.")

- We want to stack functionality. For example, we may want something to happen after a certain amount of time.

<!--Students do not need to type in this section -->

### Intro to Callbacks

Let's examine a variable that is a function

```javascript
const foo = ()=>{
    console.log("I'm the function 'foo'");
}
console.log(foo);
```

We can pass a function into another function

```javascript
const foo = ()=>{
    console.log("I'm the function 'foo'");
}
const bar = (param1)=>{
    console.log(param1);
}
bar(foo);
```

Once we've done this, we can execute the function that is passed in as a parameter (called a callback)

```javascript
const foo = ()=>{
    console.log("I'm the function 'foo'");
}
const bar = (param1)=>{
    console.log("I'm about to execute a callback");
    param1();
}
bar(foo);
```

<!--SEI1 4:49-->

If we want, we don't even need to assign the functions to variables

```javascript
const bar = (param1)=>{
    console.log("I'm about to execute a callback");
    param1();
}
bar(()=>{
    console.log("I'm the function 'foo'");
});
bar(()=>{
    console.log("I'm the function 'awesome'");
});
```

Let's say we want a `console.log` to happen after 4 seconds. If we are thinking about functions having one specific purpose, then a function that waits 4 seconds AND sends a console.log is actually doing two things. In another case we may want to send an alert, in another we may want to trigger a css color change...

It would be wise, then, to split this functionality apart:

- Waiting 4 seconds
- Triggering the other action

<!--SEI1 5:06 -->

### Code Along

- In today's `student_examples`
- `touch callbacks.js`

```js
setTimeout(() => {
  console.log('oh....hai!');
}, 4000)
```

`setTimeout` is our higher order function, it takes two arguments: the first is a function, the second is the time in milliseconds. Our callback is an **anonymous** (not named) function that logs a message. But it could have any functionality we want - for now, we'll just keep it simple.

Let's keep going with more simple examples, so we can practice the syntax.

Let's create some employees to do some important tasks for their boss.

```js
const socky = () => {
  console.log('I will happily iron your socks!')
}

socky()
```

Test the `socky` function, also leave your setTimeout function. What order will the console logs appear>

What if you set the setTimeout time to 0? What do you expect to happen?

<!--Stop here and allow devs to catch up -->

Now let's add some more employees to our staff.

```js
const foodie = () => {
  console.log('I will sort your M&Ms so that you never encounter a green one!')
}

const pr = () => {
  console.log('I will make sure everyone knows you are the best boss ever')
}
```

Let's create a function called `boss`. `boss`'s role will be to call employees to do her bidding.

```js

const boss = employee => {
  console.log('I am the boss and you will do as I say!')
  employee()
}
```

Let's get or boss to boss our employees around

```js
boss(socky)
boss(foodie)
boss(pr)
```

Our boss can even summon an anonymous function. For example let's say Mark...erm...Mike...erm...Miguel?  Let's say we can't remember an employee's name, but we still definitely them to do their work.

```js
boss(()=> {
  console.log("I'll still hand grind your coffee beans even though you never remember my name")
})
```

<!--SEI1 5:27 -->

### Another Example

Let's say we are going to manipulate a lot of words - we are working on a new text editor with a lot of custom editing. We can write a function that will capitalize every word:

```js
const capitalize = word => {
  return word[0].toUpperCase() + word.substring(1)
}
```

We also want to be able to put an exclamation point on the end of each word

```js
const excitedWords = word => {
  return word + '!'
}
```

```js
const handleWords = (str, cb) => {
  const arr = str.split(' ')
  const newArr = []
  for (let word of arr) {
    newArr.push(cb(word))
  }
  return newArr.join(' ')
}

handleWords('hello how are you?', capitalize)

handleWords('I am fine, how are you?', excitedWords)

// BONUS - what is going on here?
handleWords(handleWords('omg hi how are you', capitalize), excitedWords)
```

<!--SEI1 5:48 -->
